In Richmond Park, a huge royal park and nature reserve in west London
is this strange path of trees.
And in central London there is this: The Cheesegrater, a strange, wedge-shaped tower block. why would
you build in this form, if you can also build it up straight, and the double number
can build spaces to rent out?
Well, to explain it, I went here: This is the New London Model, in the NLA gallery
in The Building Center. It is a huge, interactive scale model of London, which is all kinds
information from the city shows - including this.
These are projected views, or sightlines. In the 1930s, London started what
to get high buildings at that time, such as Unilever House. Now they seem small, but a few floors
high, but it was enough to block some views of St Paul's Cathedral.
The tallest building in the city, and that had been for a very long time. It had just been overtaken
by the Post Office Tower in 1962. There was a public outrage about this and that's why the locale
authorities protected certain views of the cathedral and the parliament building.
That weird path of trees in Richmond Park points straight to St Paul's Cathedral - despite that
you could only see St Paul's through a telescope, you will always have the opportunity to
St Paul's, through a telescope, to see from here. There will never be a large building around the view
to block. And besides, it is also not allowed to build anything behind St Paul's,
because that would obstruct the view just as much. You can not even go high at St Paul's
in the neighborhood, because that would spoil the view from the river side: the One New Change shopping center,
next to St Paul's, has been carefully designed to circumvent all these restrictions.
Look at the Shard, London's tallest building: it is bounded to the left and right by this one
protected sightlines, but is just built outside.
And all that explains the Cheesegrater's weird form: the view of St Paul's from Fleet Street
had to be protected and leaning to the left of the tower was enough for the approval of the welfare committee
So the question remains: How long would these rules remain? London is rising, gradually, now the housing market
and putting foreign investments under pressure. In a hundred years,
if this model has been replaced by some futuristic hologram: would we still be able to stand
in Richmond Park and then see St Paul's?
Or will money have won from history?
Translated by Oscar Motions